---
annotation_id: 19f4abfe-6aee-4e31-8c16-5f7b816549e5
author: Angela Tharpe
tei_target: 
annotated_page: https://readux.io/iiif/23628489-f27b-4e4d-a76f-8d81a313effe/canvas/23628489-f27b-4e4d-a76f-8d81a313effe_MSS0921-B030-F009-I001-P001-PROD.jpg
page_index: 0
target: 

---
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin: 0in; font-size: 12pt; font-family: Calibri, sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Garamond, serif;">This French program is significant because it is another example of the narrative of Black exhibitionism: Black people whose experiences&mdash;usually vulnerable, painful experiences, such as the memory of enslavement for these Jubilee singers or the memories of police brutality, incarceration and/or poverty in the Black contemporary&mdash;are exhibited to White people as educational entertainment. Why were the Fisk Jubilee Singers made to sing the private songs of their once enslaved families? Because White people wanted them to and were willing to pay, not just in America but in Europe as well. Why did they initially disband? Because of the lack of care they received in exchange for their performance: the suffering of strokes, the ill treatment of their White directors, and the failure to be paid an amount equivalent with their success. Though perhaps the group enjoyed singing, though perhaps it brought them some kind of closure, the way that they were treated by consumers and by their initial White leaders is indicative of a problem that is often still evident in Black performance. This French program reveals a pattern of enthusiastic White crowds who do not care for Black people outside of the context of performance. It also reveals the pattern of Black pain as performance for White audiences, which we see especially in the contemporary with the marketability of Black stories after the death of George Floyd. This program asks the questions: Who owns Black performance? Who consumes it? What does popular Black performance require, and are the performers cared for when they are not performing?</span></p>